# GPS 1.1 Individual Reflection
### by Jeff George, Sept.14, 2015 for DBC Phase 0

#### What git concepts were you struggling with prior to the GPS session?

Before this session, I was confused by the use of the words "push" and "pull." I understood why the step immediately after a commit was called a **push**, because we _push_ the local feature branch to the origin/master on GitHub, and I understood why it's called a **pull** when we bring the latest version of the origin/master down to update our local master. What didn't make sense to me was why the step in between those, in which the feature branch and the origin/master are merged, was called a "pull."

#### What concepts were clarified during the GPS?

During the session, as we walked through the steps, I had a lightbulb moment, in which I realized that when we **push** our feature branch up to GitHub, we aren't yet affecting the origin/master branch. We're really just making a clone of the local feature branch in the online repo; the "pull" that is generated by the **pull request** we make on the GitHub website is to pull the online feature branch to the origin/master, and merge the two. So what I had envisioned as a three-pointed triangle (local feature => origin/master => local master, aka up and back down) is actually a four-pointed square (local feature => origin/feature => origin/master => local master, aka up, across, and back down).

#### What questions did you ask your pair and the guide?

Most of the questions we had for the guide were formulated as verification of our understanding of what we were doing or how files flow through git: "OK, I think I'm seeing x, then y, then finally z. Is that a reasonable understanding of what's going on?" For example, I asked our guide to confirm the triangle/square comparison in my answer to the previous question, and he was able to assure me that I was looking at it in a meaningful way, and that there was in fact a middle step (origin/feature => origin/master) that I had previously been omitting in my prior understanding.

#### What still confuses you about git?

In the course of doing _Release 5: Merge Conflict_, I got a much better grasp on how a **pull** breaks down into **fetch** and **merge** steps, which I hadn't really understood before. However, having identified a conflict between the local master and the local feature branch, and having edited the conflicted file in the local feature branch, we were never able to invent a way to reconcile the conflict solely on the local system. In the end, we wound up fixing the conflicted file in the feature branch, pushing it to GitHub, merging it into the origin/master branch up there, and finally pulling it back down to the local master. After all that, we did in fact have all the files in both local branches matching.

I can't even say whether our solution this was the intended method for resolving the conflict, or if we missed a method for resolving it locally; I can see an argument for either possibility. On the one hand, I can see why git/GitHub would make it impossible to merge the local feature and master branches without going through the origin/master - all changes should be routed through the single master branch on line. On the other hand, I can also see an argument for allowing a local merge between feature and master branches, to let a single team member correct a conflict that has arisen on his local system without having to connect with the online repo. Both arguments make sense, and I don't have enough git knowledge to know which one is actually true.

#### How was your first experience of pairing in a GPS?

I really enjoyed my first pairing experience. My partner was cooperative, good-spirited, clever at finding solutions, and bold enough to try experiments we weren't 100% sure of in order to see if they'd work. We didn't finish the entire challenge within the GPS session, so we continued to work for another hour or so, during which time we managed to complete the challenge, discuss what we'd done, and make educated guesses as to _why_ things on git/GitHub work the way they do. It's hard to say how I might have done on the same challenge by myself, but I am sure that it would have been a more tedious and nerve-wracking proposition. Being able to bounce ideas and theories off a partner gives one more confidence in what the team is doing than I might have had on my own.

As for the "Guided" aspect of the session, our guide coached us just a bit at the very beginning, more about session procedures than about the actual content of the challenge. Through most of the challenge, the guide quietly observed us working to solve the challenge steps. We occasionally asked him yes-or-no questions, mostly to confirm our understandings, but he in no way led us through the challenge or spoon-fed us solutions. I came away feeling like his role as a DBC representative was about 70% oversight and evaluation, and about only 30% advisory, which was just fine. I imagine that if we'd needed more direct instruction he would have been able to provide it.

